# Incident: 2026-04-07 09:23:30

## Summary

Between the hour of 03:15 and 03:25 UTC on 2026-04-07, 2 users encountered pizza factory errors. The event was triggered by a chaotic failure of the factory API at 09:15. The API response contained `{"message":"Failed to fulfill order at factory","followLinkToEndChaos":"https://pizza-factory.cs329.click/api/support/389a8b580f4c47b5bec0963561319716/report/z0rg3426"}`.

This caused pizza creations to fail. The event was detected by Grafana. The team started working on the event by accessing the URL in the API response. This level 100000 incident affected 100% of users.

There was further impact as noted by 10000 support tickets submitted, 10000000 social media mentions, and 10000000000000 calls to account managers in relation to this incident.


## Detection

This incident was detected when the order creation alert was triggered and the JWT DevOps team was paged.

Detection was delayed because our site had no traffic anyways until we started to simulate traffic at 3:15. Our marketing team will promote the site more so that it has consistent traffic and so that failures can be detected as they happen.

## Impact

For 10 minutes between 03:15 and 03:25 UTC on 04/07/2025, our users could not complete pizza orders.

This incident affected 2 customers (60% of JWT Pizza users), who experienced factory API failure.

10000 support tickets and 10000000 social media posts were submitted.

## Timeline

All times are UTC.

- _3:14_ - Traffic simulation started
- _3:15_ - Users begin to experience failures
- _3:23_ - Grafana Order creation threshold exceeded, JWT DevOps team alerted
- _3:24_ - JWT DevOps team begins investigating failures
- _3:25_ - Link to end chaos found and accessed. Impact resolved.


## Response

After receiving a page at 3:23 UTC, Jonathan came online at 9:24 UTC in Grafana.

## Root cause

Chaos mode was enabled in the JWT Pizza Factory.

## Resolution

Chaos mode was disabled via link in API response. Time to mitigation could be improved by simulating traffic 24/7 or getting more users.

## Prevention

This same root cause resulted in an incident at the beginning of the semester where Jonathan accidentally activated chaos mode. No mitigation steps were taken, so this incident occurred again because Jonathan activated chaos mode again.

## Action items

1. Factory team: Revoke Jonathan's access to activating chaos mode
1. Factory & DevOps teams: Separate chaos mode from production so that it can be used without affecting users
1. DevOps team: Allocate a server to simulate traffic 24/7
